## Participants:

- Bart b
- B Abraham
- JT Witte
- Laura Lindzey
- Mabel Zhang
- Nick Hetherington
- Thomas Denewiler
- Vasutorn Siriyakorn
- Vatan Aksoy Tezer
- Yuri Oliverira

## Administrative: call for volunteers

Want more interactive discussions and involvement in these meetings. One way is to give people responsibilities, to encourage interactions.

Roles looking for volunteers (looking for 2-3 volunteers per role in case people busy):

- Hosting meeting (Currently Yuri and Arjo. +Laura if Google Meet 1-hour cut off becomes a problem)
- Post agenda
- Taking meeting minutes (+Bart)
- Kanban board (+Mabel)
- Recording meeting
- Scout: search for new tools, new goals, new presentations (+Vatan)
- Master coder: code reviewer, merger (+Vatan)

Still looking for volunteers. This will be ongoing. Post on [Matrix chat](https://matrix.to/#/#ros-maritime:matrix.org) if you want to help in any way.

## Kanban

- [Added mass in sdformat](https://github.com/ros-maritime/issue_tracking/issues/6) moved to done
- Nick asks about [standard interfaces card](https://github.com/ros-maritime/issue_tracking/issues/17)
  - Latest: [PR opened on rosdistro](https://github.com/ros/rosdistro/pull/35488). Laura making progress on renaming. Vatan will iterate on release. Will keep under APL org because historical existence of the institution will ensure long-term maintenance.
- Nick interested in contributing equipment-specific messages, which could be complementary to Laura's equipment-agnostic messages. Can live in his org or ros-maritime org. Vatan offers to make releases. Nick will check with group.

## Action items from ROSCon 2022 Maritime Birds of a Feather

- From [community notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/139rx-fDbIBkA017ie2DTs_3AZOODaS0aw1O9_OenDsI/edit?usp=sharing) from ROSCon BoF
- Action item: Add .repos file to [awesome-maritime-robotics](https://github.com/ros-maritime/awesome-maritime-robotics) repo containing vcs checkout YAML of repos affiliated with this WG
  - Looking for a volunteer to do this, or Yuri could
- Mabel looking into GitHub actions to pull in tickets from affiliated repos into this meeting's [kanban board](https://github.com/orgs/ros-maritime/projects/1), Yuri to give Mabel access
- Any action items from Sim breakout? Nick doesn't recall. Plugins list may be talking about acoustic comms.
  - gz-sim has an implementation of acoustic comms. [One of the PRs](https://github.com/gazebosim/gz-sim/pull/1793). [Source code](https://github.com/gazebosim/gz-sim/tree/gz-sim7/src/systems/acoustic_comms)

## Awesome maritime robotics repo

Bart asks for definition and scope of list of tools in [awesome-maritime-robotics](https://github.com/ros-maritime/awesome-maritime-robotics))
- How long should descriptions be?
  - Yuri not opposed to longer descriptions; as the list grows, can reformat it to suit people's needs. Open PR if you want to organize it differently
- Non-maritime tools e.g. path planners, generic contollers for marine engineering controls?
  - Nick suggests if general tools are added, there should be links to existing examples showing how to adapt them to use for marine applications. Group agreed (Yuri, Mabel, Vasutorn)

## (Incomplete) chat log

This is an incomplete list of whatever messages I happened to grab

```
Vatan Aksoy Tezer 11:14 AM
I am happy to help with scouting and coding, since meetings are extremely late time for me since I live in Japan, so unfortunately cannot do any admin stuff

Mabel Zhang 11:15 AM
You moved!

Mabel Zhang 11:37 AM
One of the acoustic tickets https://github.com/gazebosim/gz-sim/pull/1793
acoustic comms source code location https://github.com/gazebosim/gz-sim/tree/gz-sim7/src/systems/acoustic_comms

Vatan Aksoy Tezer 11:54 AM
I gotta go now, thank you for the meeting. Please ping me in any PR that needs a review, or let me know of any repositories that needs maintanance, additional features etc, releases etc. Just joined element so feel free to reach me out there. Good syncing up and I'll see you next time!

Mabel Zhang 11:54 AM
Thanks Vatan!

Laura Lindzey 11:54 AM
Tahnks Vatan
I'll ping you when I finish this migration ... I made progress during this meeting =)

Vatan Aksoy Tezer11:55 AM
Yay, let me know if you need any help or when we are good to go for renaming and releases.

Laura Lindzey 11:57 AM
Other issue: it looks like Google Meet kicks us out after exactly an hour. I could see that being a feature and not a bug, but if it becomes an issue, I'd be happy to host these meetings using my university Zoom account.
```
