## Participants:

Arjo Chakravarty
Rob McEwen
Roland Arsenault
Andrew Hamilton
Denis Stogl
Rhys Mainwaring
John Naglak
Tim Player
Vatan Aksoy
Laura Lindzey
JT Witte
B Abraham
Dharini Dutia
Mabel Zhang
Jessica Herman
John Naglak
Yuri Oliveira

### Kanban progress of the Working Group:

ROS Control for maritime robotics - Denis Stogl:

There has been development in ROS control for maritime robotics, but not opensource yet.
By mid next year they should have something open source
Added mass terms in SDF - Dharini Dutia and Andrew Hamilton:

Development of unit tests for added mass in SDF are being made
Evaluation of the solution and comparisson between gazebo and real field test has shown good results
Doppler Velocity Log and Lookup Table for Hydrodynamics - Arjo Chakravarty:
- DVL is soon to be moved to done (Mitch is finishing the development)
- Lookup table is done but nor integrated with hydrodynamis, due to next month

We got out firsts items moved to done:
- Gazebo RFComm
- Lookup sensors for sensor modelling

### Discussion about Nathan messages packages (https://github.com/Greenroom-Robotics/hydrographic_msgs):
- How to mantain and where to keep the repo is going to be disscussed in the next meeting with Nathan since he could not join this one
- Vatam Aksoy volunteered to help blooming and releasing this and maybe future packages, he provided his email for questions and discussion about it (vatan@picknik.ai)

### Radar Messages
Roland Arsenault brought the discussion on missing radar messages (https://discourse.ros.org/t/standard-messages-for-marine-radars/27628)

### Wave and Hydrodynamis Simulation - Rhys Mainwaring:
- Document with requirements and ideas for realistic simulation for maritime robotics (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eN1EBV4eXjlWAY-olvIl2dII5_H3jCRrkm00MGwLPz4/edit)
- Rhys introduced the document and explained the details and main ideas
- We should discuss this offline via the document edit and bring the main topics to future meeting

Mabel updates for BoF (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Q_EGEk0kKRwhlFbuWfpmFFoDXBTMW-ewVpO3mrugEGQ/edit):
- Zoom will be used because of the possibility of multiple hosts and easy use of breakout rooms
- Google Form will be sent for RSVP and also to understand if we really need the hybrid format or pure on site event
- There will be a physical space for the meeting, but there are no specs regarding the room
- Also there were disscussion about the challenges and possible solution for the meeting (More details in the doc)
